Ir and the Future (and some "idiotisms")

Ir (to go) is irregular in the present.

Yo voy
Tú vas
él vas
nosotros vamos
ellos van


Vamos a la ciudad		We're going to the city
¿Adónde van ellos?		(to) Where are they going?
Voy al banco los miércoles	I go to the bank on Wednesdays
Ouiero ir al supermercado	I want to go to the supermarket

Ir + a + (an infinite) means to be going to do something in the future

Examples:
Ellos van a cantar esta noche	They are going to sing tonight
Vamos a decidir más tarde	We are going to decide later

To ask a question, place the subject after the conjugated IR or after the infinite

¿Van ellos a cantar esta noche?	Are they going to sing tonight?
¿A qué hora va a llegar el tren? At what hour is the train going to arrive?

More -ar verbs:
aceptar		to accept
apagar		to turn off
arreglar	to arrange, to fix
cambiar		to change
celebrar	to celebrate
cruzar		to cross
dibujar		to draw
disfrutar	to enjoy
doblar		to turn, to fold
explicar	to explain
firmar		to sign
gozar		to enjoy
llorar		to cry
manejar		to drive
marcar		to dial, to mark
necesitar	to need
parar		to stop
pintar		to paint
preparar	to prepare
repasar		to review
terminar	to finish
tirar		to throw
usar		to use
viajar		to travel


Idioms, because there is no such thing as direct translation between languages!!!

To say how old someone is use tener.

Yo tengo treinta años		I am thirty (I have thirty years)

The Spanish language loves to marry idioms with TENER. They are legion.

tener calor	to be hot
tener celos	to be jealous
...
tener lugar	to take place
tener prisa	to be in a hurry
etc. etc. etc...

There are many of these idioms. Learn them as you need them.

Mas idiomas!

acabar de + infinitive	(to have just done something)

yo acabo de llegar	I have just arrived
él acaba de salir	He has just left
Ellos acaban de volver	They have just returned

dejar de + infinite	(to stop doing something)

yo dejo de fumar		I stop smoking
ella dejas de comer		She stops dancing
nosotros dejamos de trabajar 	We stop working

tener que + infinitive 	(to have to do something)

yo tengo que ir			I have to go
él tienes que cocinar		He has to cook
ellas tienen que descansar	They have to rest

tratar de + infinitive (to try to do something)

Yo trato de leer		I try to read
Ustedes tratan de nadar		You all try to swim

volver a + infinitive (to do something again)

Yo vuelvo a leer	I read again
Usted vuelve a mentir	You lie again
Ustedes vuelven a ganar	You win again

que (that, which, who)

Ditch all the confusing gramatical language. Just learn the form. I doubt spanish speakers consciously add the que to add a "subordinate clause" to a sentence.

In English it is often okay to omit the word THAT from a sentence. Do not omit que.

Para has two meanings (for, in order to)

el, la, los, las are used more often than possessive adjectives (Especially with the body)
Example:
Ella tiene un problema en el pie	She has a problem with her foot



Time and Hacer

hace que + verb in present

¿Cuánto tiempo hace que él estudia el francés?	How long has he been studying French?

To answer How long, Hace + length of time + que + verb in present tense

Hace dos años que yo vivo aquí	I have been living here for 2 years


TAKE AWAYS
Ir + a + (an infinite) 	means to be going to do something in the future
acabar de + infinitive	(to have just done something)
dejar de + infinite	(to stop doing something)
tener que + infinitive 	(to have to do something)
tratar de + infinitive 	(to try to do something)
volver a + infinitive 	(to do something again)
hace que + verb in present (to have done something up to and including now)
