A review of Scott Samuelson's Seven Ways of Looking at Pointless Suffering

The book presents seven ways of looking at suffering. It's a fine book overall. 
Two weaknesses of the book are its focus on prison reform and lack of a section on suicide. 
Prison reform is important of course and Samuelson points out the absurdity of America 
having 25% of the world's prison population. The issue I take is that I didn't think 
I was buying a book about the need for prison reform.

Samuelson volunteers in prison, which serves as a framing to examine suffering. 
The inmates he teaches philosophy to like to chew on the material he gives, for 
the most part.

Prison is a good place to start to examine suffering I only wish it had gone further.
Though not glib I wouldn't call the book deep. A book on suffering should be hard to read. 

The seven ways offered don't go deep enough. For the most part Samuelson's skims the 
surface of these points of view. The exceptions are the sections on The Problem of Evil 
and the section on sublimation through art. 

Samuelson does a great job of arguing that the Problem of Evil is not an axiomatic 
refutation of a good God. He presents compelling answers to the Problem of Evil from religious 
apologists. The arguments do not win me over but I appreciate their power and am glad 
to see that he's not just paying lip service to an idea here. There is an appreciation 
for the internal struggle of the monotheists to this question.

Interestingly Samuelson's definition of God is broad and broadening. I don't believe 
its his definition alone. Every time I visit a church the definition of the abrahamic 
God seems to broaden. Soon God will become the Alpha and Omega and every letter in-between.

As I said earlier the book should include a section on suicide. The seven ways we're offered 
to view suffering seem to be ways that Samuelson approves of. Well, I think authors should 
also present ideas they find horrifying. I want a philosopher to examine the suffering and 
thinking that goes through the minds of people who are suicidal. There are deep philosophical 
questions that need to be thought about with suicide. The closest he comes to addressing it is a 
reference to a greek story about living too long and a modern story about a woman with 
dementia who received surgery to prolong her life. It is clear to me that suicide is a 
response to suffering. A response that many humans have had. I want a philosopher to talk 
about that.

This book may have worked out better as a seven book set. Each one looking deeply through 
the lens of a different point of view.

